An introduction to the book of Numbers.
Numbers was written by Moses.
He began the writing
in the wilderness of Sinai
and completed it on the plains of Moab.
The narrative covers a period
of 38 years and 9 months,
from 1512 to 1473 B.C.E.
when Moses finished the writing.
Numbers gets its name
from the two times that Moses
numbered the people
—first at Mount Sinai
and later on the plains of Moab.
The book highlights Jehovah’s ability
to lead his people,
it underscores the need
to obey God’s appointed representatives,
and it illustrates
the importance of strong faith.
Numbers has 36 chapters.
In chapters 1 to 4,
Israelite males 20 years old and up,
except for the Levites,
are registered for the army.
The Levites are set apart
to assist the priests.
Chapters 5 to 9 discuss marital faithfulness,
quarantining, and service as a Nazirite.
In chapter 10, the Israelites pull away
from the wilderness of Sinai
by their tribal divisions.
In chapter 11,
the people complain about the manna,
a miraculous food provided by Jehovah.
In the next chapter,
Miriam and Aaron speak against Moses.
For this, Miriam
is temporarily struck with leprosy
and quarantined for seven days.
In chapters 13 and 14,
twelve Israelite chieftains
—one from each tribe—
are sent to spy out the land of Canaan.
Ten spies bring back a negative report,
and the people want to return to Egypt.
For this gross lack of faith,
the Israelites must wander in the wilderness
for 40 years until that generation has died.
Did you know?
Joshua and Caleb were the only spies
who had faith in Jehovah.
So they were the only spies
who would enter the Promised Land.
And they did!
Caleb inherited the field
and settlements of Hebron.
Joshua’s inheritance was
in the mountainous region of Ephraim,
where he died at the age of 110.
Chapters 15 to 17 discuss
the various offerings for sins
as well as the rebellion
and execution of Korah,
Dathan, Abiram, and their supporters.
In chapter 21,
the people again complain about the manna,
calling it “contemptible bread.”
In chapters 22 to 24,
Moabite King Balak hires Balaam,
a greedy non-Israelite, to curse Israel.
But Jehovah makes Balaam
pronounce blessings.
In chapter 25,
many of God’s people commit
sexual immorality with Moabite women.
This leads to idolatry
and the death of 24,000 Israelites
by a scourge from God.
In the next chapter,
Moses takes the second census.
In chapter 27,
the daughters of Zelophehad tell Moses
that they have no brother
to carry on the family inheritance.
Jehovah directs that in such situations
a daughter may have that privilege.
Then God commands Moses
to ascend a mountain
in the region of Abarim
to view the Promised Land.
Because Moses is soon to die,
Jehovah tells him to appoint Joshua
to lead Israel into Canaan.
Chapters 31 to 36 discuss
the apportioning of Canaan
and other matters as the Israelites
prepare to cross the Jordan River.
As you read the book of Numbers,
note how Jehovah patiently guides his people,
see why we need to obey those appointed
to take the lead among us,
and reflect on our need for strong faith
as we approach a far greater Promised Land
—the new world under God’s Kingdom.